The design and fabrication of atomic magnetometers with millimeter-scale dimensions haspresented a number of interesting challenges over the last decade. Research on this topicgrew out of previous work to develop chip-scale atomic clocks [3, 12] and many of theelements of the two types of instruments are similar. In fact, the first chip-scale atomicmagnetometer to be operated was the same device as an earlier chip-scale atomic clock.The main components of an optical magnetometer physics package are the following: alight source, a vapor cell, optics to direct and polarize the light, heaters to heat the vaporcell, and photodetectors. In conventional commercial alkali magnetometers an alkali lampexcited with an RF discharge is used as the light source. The vapor cell is fabricated by useof glass-blowing techniques and contains the alkali-metal atoms and a buffer gas to reducethe effects of wall collisions as described above. Commercial atomic magnetometers have asensor volume of approximately 1 L and require about 10 W of electrical power to operate.Highly miniaturized versions of these instruments have incorporated two main improve-ments: the first is to use a low-power semiconductor laser as the light source. The RFdischarges needed to activate the lamp require 1 w of electrical power or more to operate.Lasers, on the other hand, are considerably more efficient. Vertical-cavity surface emit-ting lasers (VCSELS), for example, can have a wall-plug efficiency above 10% and cantherefore run on a few milliwatts of electrical power. The second improvement is the useof microfabricated alkali vapor cells, which allow the alkali atoms to be contained in amuch smaller volume than is achieved with glass-blown cells. The smaller cell size in turnallows the power needed to heat the cell to its operating temperature to be much lower.These two improvements, along with a number of more minor changes, have allowed thedemonstration of atomic magnetometer sensor heads with volumes below 10 mm5，as wellas some novel designs that are outlined below.To address applications with different requirements, two generally different approachesto miniaturization have been tried: a fully integrated chip-scale magnetic sensor andmicrofabricated remote sensor heads fiber-optically coupled to a central control unit.